<font color="red">More Linux OS support</font>

Buildroot

Buildroot is a tool that simplifies and automates the process of
building a complete Linux system for an embedded system, using cross-
compilation. In order to achieve this, Buildroot is able to generate a
cross-compilation toolchain, a root filesystem, a Linux kernel image
and a bootloader for your target. Buildroot can be used for any
combination of these options, independently (you can for example use
an existing cross-compilation toolchain, and build only your root
filesystem with Buildroot).

Buildroot is one of the OSs mainly supported by Firefly. For detailed
compilation and usage tutorials, please refer to Firefly's "Buildroot
Development Manual".


Ubuntu 18.04

Ubuntu (Ubantu) is a Debian-based Linux operating system based on
desktop applications. It is said that its name comes from the word
"ubuntu" in Zulu or Xhosa in southern Africa, meaning "humanity", "my
"Existence is because of everyone's existence", which is a traditional
African value. **Users can experience the charm of Ubuntu system on
Firefly board by querying

"Firefly Ubuntu User Manual"

.


Ubuntu 20.04

Compared with the recent LTS predecessor Ubuntu 18.04, Ubuntu 20.04
brings many changes and obvious improvements. As time goes by,
Canonical's future seems to have become milder and brighter, with
better decorations. For all Ubuntu fans, we believe you will like this
new version, you can find it in the link below.


Yocto

The Yocto Project (YP) is an open source collaboration project that
helps developers create custom Linux-based systems regardless of the
hardware architecture. The project provides a flexible set of tools
and a space where embedded developers worldwide can share
technologies, software stacks, configurations, and best practices that
can be used to create tailored Linux images for embedded and IOT
devices, or anywhere a customized Linux OS is needed.

Firefly adapts the Yocto project to the board, and users can quickly
develop it by viewing "Yocto Project Development Manual".


Debian 10

The Debian project was founded by Ian Murdock in 1993 and is a truly
free community project. Since then the project has developed into one
of the largest and most influential open source projects. Thousands of
volunteers from all over the world jointly create and maintain Debian
software. Debian provides 70 languages and supports multiple computer
types, so it calls itself a universal operating system.

Due to the powerful versatility of Debian, Firefly has adapted Debian
10 for developers to use.

Shiprock

Centos 8

CentOS (Community Enterprise Operating System) is one of the Linux
distributions. It is compiled from the source code released by Red Hat
Enterprise Linux (RHEL) in accordance with the open source
regulations. Since it comes from the same source code, some servers
that require high stability use CentOS instead of the commercial
version of Red Hat Enterprise Linux.

Due to the powerful versatility of Centos, Firefly has adapted Centos
8 for developers to use.

Shiprock

LibreELEC

LibreELEC is a lightweight "just right operating system" Linux
distribution, built specifically for Kodi on current and popular media
center hardware.

Firefly adapts LibreELEC to the board. Users can view "Compile
LibreELEC firmware" for rapid development.

Shiprock
