U-Boot

Introduction

RK U-Boot based on the open source U-Boot development, work mode has a
Boot loading mode and download mode. Boot load mode is the normal
working mode of u-boot, embedded product release, u-boot is working in
this mode, mainly used for Boot to load the memory of the kernel into
memory, start the operating system; Download mode is mainly used to
download the firmware to flash memory, and press the Recovery button
to enter the download mode after startup time. This article briefly
explains the use of u-boot. Please refer to the development document
"v3.0.pdf" of the "RKDocs/common/uboot/RockChip_Uboot" directory under
the SDK for more relevant documents.

Compile

The compiling steps of U-Boot are similar to kernel compiling. Before
compiling, you need to write the configuration to ".config", run the
command:

Android:

   make rk3399_box_defconfig

Linux:

   make roc-rk3399-pc_defconfig

If you need to modify the relative option, you can run:

   make menuconfig

Run below command to compile:

   make ARCHV=aarch64

After compiling successfully, there will be a new file created at the
follow path:

   u-boot/uboot.img
   u-boot/trust.img
   u-boot/RK3399MiniLoaderAll_Vx.xx.bin

Flash Image

Open the upgrade tool, connect the board with the USB OTG cable, press
the Recovery key when the power is on, and make the development board
enter the U-Boot download mode. Select the compiled Loader file in the
upgrade tool and click execute, as shown below:


Verify that the new Loader is correctly upgraded

If you flash the loader successfully, there will be some information
output from the debug UART as the follow log shows:

   #Boot ver: 2016-12-19#1.05

If the time shows the same as your compile time, it means you flash
the loader successfully.

Enter u-boot command line mode

Since Firefly product is mainly used for development, we set the 1
second countdown time when starting up by default. At this time, if
any key is input in the serial port, it can enter the u-boot command
line mode. The product released does not need to enter the U-Boot
command line mode. If U-Boot is not required to enter the command line
mode by default, the following modifications can be made:

In the file: "u-boot/include/configs/rk33plat.h"

   /* mod it to enable console commands.  */
   #define CONFIG_BOOTDELAY               1

If the macro CONFIG_BOOTDELAY is changed to 0, it will not enter
command line mode by default.

Primary Loader(RK3328)

U-Boot is a primary loader mode, so it only supports the EMMC storage
device, and the result is a mirror image of the generated after the
compilation:

   RK3288LoaderU-BOOT_V2.17.01.bin

Where "V2.17.01" is the released version number, rockchip defines the
version of U-Boot loader, where "2.17" is defined according to the
stored version, the customer must not modify this version, "01" is a
small version of u-boot definition, the user according to the actual
needs in the "Makefile" to modify.

Secondary Loader(RK3399/RK3399PRO)

U-Boot as a secondary loader mode, then the firmware support all
storage devices, this mode, need MiniLoader support, through the macro
"CONFIG_MERGER_MINILOADER" to configuration generation. With the
introduction of "Arm Trusted", Firmware will produce a "trust image"
that will be configured with the "CONFIG_MERGER_TRUSTIMAGE" macro.

   u-boot/uboot.img
   u-boot/trust.img
   u-boot/RK3399MiniLoaderAll_V1.05.bin

Where "V1.05" is the released version number, rockchip defines the
version of U-Boot loader, where "1.05" is defined according to the
storage version, the customer must not modify this version.
"uboot.img" is U-Boot as a secondary loader of packaging. "trust.img"
is U-Boot as a secondary loader of packaging.

V1.05 is the version number of the release, rockchip defines the
U-Boot loader version, which is based on the 1.05 version of the
definition of storage, customers must not modify this version.
uboot.img is U-Boot as a secondary loader package. trust.img is U-Boot
as a secondary loader package.
